I'm so pleased to say that the sister who wrote that letter about her anxieties is actually
here with us in the studio to tell us more about her experience.
This is Jordan Williams and her husband Robert.
Thank you so much for coming here to share with us your battle with anxiety.
Can you elaborate on that please?
I feel ashamed of my anxiety.
I feel like there's something wrong with me and I feel guilty about that.
I feel like I'm letting Jehovah down by feeling anxious and that I'm even being disobedient
to Jesus when he says, stop being anxious, but I just can't.
Thank you for sharing that, Robert.
What do you do to help Jordan battle this anxiety?
It's a monster that sometimes a very stubborn monster that won't go away.
Remembering that, remembering that it's not her fault that helps me be more compassionate,
listening when she's explaining these anxieties that I may not completely understand.
Jordan, are there other practical things that help you battle anxiety?
The single biggest help is walking with Jehovah every day.
I mean that literally.
I'll wake up in the morning, super anxious and I can't breathe and my chest is tight
and I'll get up and I'll read the chapter of the Bible that the daily text comes from
and then I'll go on a walk and talk to Jehovah for an hour.
And I try to use the model prayer as an outline.
So I'll talk to Jehovah about his name and how I feel so privileged to have that name on me.
And I'll talk to him about his kingdom that's going to solve all of these problems,
including anxiety.
And I'll talk to him about his will and specifically what his will is for me that day.
And most of the time, those three things cover the things that were worrying me.
But if there is another thing, I'll talk to him specifically about that.
What a nice walk you have with Jehovah.
Are there other things that help you deal and battle anxiety?
Personal study projects help a lot, especially if they don't have anything to do with anxiety.
If I do a study project on like the spiritual suit of armor or the ransom,
it kind of distracts the anxiety monster.
So my heart can calm down.
And then these pearls of wisdom will come from Jehovah and they can get in.
And if some of those pearls are actually just what I need to deal with my anxiety.
Are there specific things that help you?
Yes.
I made an anxiety tab in the personal study section of my study Bible on my tablet.
And I collect scriptures and comments that really help with my anxiety.
For example, in 2014, there was a regional convention talk about Matthew chapter six
and six specific things that combat anxiety.
And it made me think of like the 12-step program to overcoming addiction.
This is the six steps to overcoming anxiety.
What are those six steps?
The first one is to help those in need and then pray a lot to be forgiving,
not to be hypocritical, to store up treasures in heaven,
and then to focus on spiritual matters.
So when we got back from the convention, she took those items,
she wrote them down and put them on magnets and put them on our refrigerator.
I try to do each one of those six things every day.
And when I accomplish one, I'll turn the magnet so I can see what I still need to work on.
So when I come into the refrigerator in the morning, if the magnets are turned,
we know where she's at.
If they're not turned, we know we're in trouble.
It's a bad day.
Time to do something else.
Very good, nice barometer.
So what can others do or say that would be helpful to those going through anxiety?
For the friends, it's really nice when they're understanding and non-judgmental
and respect my privacy.
That's really helpful.
And when they don't freeze me in time, decide that, oh, she's anxious,
and this is how she's going to be all the time.
That's really helpful.
I even forget that Jehovah approves of me.
So reminding me of that, reminding me that the things that I do to please him are successful.
And maybe even reminding me of things that I've accomplished for Jehovah in the past.
You know you should tell Ron about your broken dish.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, I'd like to know about that.
So I just found out about this Japanese art called Kinsukuroi.
And it's basically taking a broken piece of pottery and fixing it
by putting it back together with gold or silver lacquer.
And the concept is that the piece is more beautiful for having been broken.
And that really resonates with me because I do feel broken by anxiety.
But Jehovah gave Jesus his the ransom, and that ransom is just pure gold.
And he can take all the broken anxious little bits of me and put me back together.
And maybe I'll even be more useful to Jehovah for having been broken.
That's very precious.
Thank you for sharing that.
Are there other things that help you deal with anxiety?
I've learned to recognize when anxiety is clouding my thinking.
And I'll ask him, can I borrow your brain for a minute, please?
So what we did is we went and purchased a whiteboard, put it in my office.
And sometimes we'll go to the whiteboard and write out all the anxieties that she's dealing with.
As we're writing them out, sometimes we realize those are yesterday's anxieties.
And they've been cared for.
So we can erase those from the board.
Some of them are from tomorrow.
And so we don't want to borrow those and bring them today.
That's tomorrow's anxiety.
And some anxieties can be grouped in little clusters.
And you can realize the root is here.
Let's focus on that.
I fight anxiety every single day.
And anxiety is constantly changing its tactics.
So I have to be adaptable.
But Jehovah never leaves me to fight anxiety alone ever.
I don't understand what I've done to merit all of his attention.
But I do realize that I don't need to understand why he loves me.
I trust him and he never lies.
So I just need to accept it when he shows me that love.
We appreciate you sharing those personal feelings.
And again, we know that Jehovah and Jesus are so proud of you.
And we know that those who are listening into this interview
will benefit so much from listening to your personal expressions.
Thank you very much.